# Music Social Media

This project was generated with [Angular CLI](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli) version 11.2.6.

## Project Setup
* Clone this repository
* Open to this repository in a terminal window
* Run the command `npm ci` to install all necessary packages for the project
* Run `ng serve` to run the server for this application once all packages are installed

## Development server

Run `ng serve` for a dev server. Navigate to `http://localhost:4200/`. The app will automatically reload if you change any of the source files.

## App Purpose
Our application aims to fill a gap in social media platforms and audio platforms. It will focus on social media specifically pertaining to music. Current social media platforms are too multi-faceted and don't have a strict focus and music platforms lack meaningful social interaction. Our platforms aims to be a place for music lovers, friends and artists to all interact and share in the love of music.


##Documentation
In order to fulfill our App purpose we created a relatively simple Music Oriented Social media site that allows users to share, like, comment, and save a users favorite playlists, artists, albums, songs, upcoming events, and music recommendations. Our site is built with simplicity in mind, and so there are not a lot of different pages to route through, instead we went with a popup design. Whenever a user wants to interact with any post, song, album, artists, event, or recommendation they simply click on the item they want to interact with and the appropriate popup shows on screen. There are no autoplays, and the main page remains relatively static, the only movement is scrolling through the various sections. In keeping with this design the profile page was also made to be simple and easy to navigate. With only 4 sections of information that other users can view. We wanted this site to be exclusively music oriented, so our choices on what to include in each page were driven exclusively on music relevancy. 

As can be seen on the main page we included the following sections-- Recommended Music, Event Calendar, Friend Recent Activity, General Friend & Public Playlists, and a post feed to share more general posts or thoughts. We decided to include these sections because this allows users to see what others are listening to or like to listen to, recent activity, and most importantly allows users to share content with each other. They can also react to their recommendations or to any song, album, artist, playlist, or event. As well as comment on any of these as well, with the included comment button in each of the popups. This button would bring up a comment section that is exclusively tied to that item. 
For the most part clicking on the item itself brings up a popup that is relevant to that item, and allows users to react, share, or comment on that item. Some popups are also connected to others, for example all popups have a comment button that brings up an additional comment popup for that item and allows for discussion on that item. Additionally, there is a hierarchy of  popups, in that more general popups bring up more specific popups based on the information on that popup. For example clicking on the event info button brings up the event info popup, from there users can click on an artist from the lineup list and that brings up the artist info popup. Under the artists info popup there is an album list section, and when clicking on one of those album items brings up the album info popup, and from there they can click down to song info popup which is the last in the hierarchy. The playlist popup also allows the user to bring up individual song information under the song list.
We decided to only include quick action buttons on the left sections of the home page because we felt these were the only items users might want to interact with, without bringing up information popups. The other items we felt having the information popup and having users interact in that way was better because they were views on what other people are listening to, and having the information come up on the songs or playlists seemed more appropriate. We decided to include quick actions on recommended music because adding that recommendation to favorites on the fly seemed important, if someone reached out to you with it you might be more inclined to save for later than a song you see someone else listening to on your own. The same for event calendar, we felt commeting on the event without having to go bring up the information was beneficial as would be an add to calendar quick action. Since the event calendar was the only place with actually functional buttons we decided to have an information button bring up the event info popup instead of clicking on the item. This was mostly out of necessity since having a clickable item area and functional buttons would have un-wanted popups come up. I.e. clicking on the button also registered as a click on the item, and this led to redundant popups coming up. This was not a problem with recommended music as the buttons there were not functional, as they would need to be tied to some backend instead of just bringing up a popup. Same for most of the buttons in the popups, only the comment button is functional due to the others needing to be tied to some backend server and database. 
Our top search and login bar is unfortunately underpopulated but we would include a profile picture, login button, and likely some settings here. In addition to the search bar that is present, which is non-functional and serves primarily as a placeholder. Much like the 'text' box in the comments popup.

On our profile page the four sections all have clickable items, and again we felt these did not need quick action buttons as clicking on each item brought up a popup with all the desired functions, and we wanted meaningful interaction where users clicked and interacted only on what they are interested in, this also kept the design simple and clutter free. The friends list routes back to the main page, as we wanted to show some routing but were only able to build one profile page in time, but in the future it would route to other profile pages. Additionally recently played items bring up the song info popup, and highlighted playlists bring up the playlist info popup which can be used to bring up individual song info. And finally highlighted albums artists also have clickable items. Unfortunately the design here isn't quite what we would have liked, the section calls for a mix of highlighted albums and artists, but we were unable to have a mix of two separate item types and so all items here bring up the artist info popup, which can be used to bring up the album info popups. Ideally clicking on a highlighted "album" would only bring up the album popup, and clicking on an "artist" would bring up the artist popup, but we were unable to get a mix. 
This was the same issue as with recommended music on the main page. We would have liked for recommendations to be a mix of songs, albums, artists, and playlists; but we were unable to find a reasonable way of including a mix of different items in that section that would each bring up their own relevant popups. So we opted to only include recommended songs for now, which only brings up the song info. 

This brings me to what we would have liked to include but could not due to time and being out of scope. We wanted a mix of item types in the highlighted, recommended and recent activity sections as mentioned before but we could not find a way to push different types of items, requiring different fields and values, onto the same list. We also wanted a more functional search bar and comment text box instead of placeholders. As well as a more built out top bar, which was our lowest priority. Additionally having a play music button which brings up a music player and plays the song would have been very nice. As well as integrating with lastfm and spotify apis to include activity and searches from those sites. We also missed an opportunity to include a share button on the feed items to share posts, but we felt having comments was the minimum functionality it should have. Finally, the use of popups while nice can be a little confusing at times with all the popups essentially piling ontop of each other. Having a close button to exit the popup instead of clicking outside of the popup to close it would have been better. As clicking outside the popup brings the focus away from the popup and you may sometimes have to click on the popup area again to refocus so you can interact with it.

Overall we felt the site has the basic functionality we were going for to make a social media platform that was exclusively focused on music. There are options to comment on everything, as well as react and share to all things. We believe we were also succesfull in meeting our design requirements of a simple, unintrusive, easy to use, and accesible social media site. 
